---
title: "Toward Remapping Residual Movement of Shoulder: A Soft Body-Machine Interface (Under Review)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-07-13-SoftBoMI
excerpt: 'Spinal cord injury-induced tetraplegia significantly impairs patients' ability to carry out daily activities. Customized human-machine interfaces for controlling assistive devices is vital in improving the patient's self-help ability and reducing the societal caregiving burden. In this study, we developed a body-machine interface that utilizes soft sensors and IMUs to remap residual shoulder movements of tetraplegics to a two-dimensional continuous command space. A rule-based and a user intent-inference-based data decoding method were designed by us, respectively, for mapping interface data to command spaces. By involving the prior knowledge of user's abilities into a shared autonomy framework, we have implemented a shared command mapping approach to enhance the efficiency of command generation. Finally, we validated the effectiveness of the proposed method through target reaching tasks and a virtual powered wheelchair driving task. Our proposed method has the potential to be integrated into clothing, enabling non-invasive interaction in daily life. Additionally, it can also serve as a complementary for completing intricate tasks through cooperation with brain-computer interface or joysticks. '
date: 2023-04-05
venue: 'IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters with IROS 2023'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10093012'
citation: 'R. Liu et al., “Adaptive Symmetry Reference Trajectory Generation in Shared Autonomy for Active Knee Orthosis,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 3118–3125, Jun. 2023, doi: 10.1109/LRA.2023.3264767.
'
---
Gait symmetry training plays an essential role in the rehabilitation of hemiplegic patients. Robotics-based gait training has been widely accepted by patients and clinicians. Reference trajectory generation for the affected side using the motion data of the unaffected side is an important way to achieve this. However, online generation of gait reference trajectory requires the algorithm to provide correct gait phase delay and could reduce the impact of measurement noise from sensors and input uncertainty from users. Based on an active knee orthosis (AKO) prototype, this work presents an adaptive symmetric gait trajectory generation framework for the gait rehabilitation of hemiplegic patients. Using the adaptive nonlinear frequency oscillators (ANFO) and movement primitives, we implement online gait pattern encoding and adaptive phase delay according to the real-time user input. A shared autonomy (SA) module with online input validation and arbitration has been designed to prevent undesired movements from being transmitted to the actuator on the affected side. The experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of the framework. Overall, this work suggests that the proposed method has the potential to perform gait symmetry rehabilitation in an unstructured environment and provide a kinematic reference for torque-assistance AKO.

[Download paper here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10093012)

Recommended citation: R. Liu et al., “Adaptive Symmetry Reference Trajectory Generation in Shared Autonomy for Active Knee Orthosis,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 3118–3125, Jun. 2023, doi: 10.1109/LRA.2023.3264767.



---
title: "Toward Remapping Residual Movement of Shoulder: A Soft Body-Machine Interface (Under Review)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-07-13-SoftBoMI
excerpt: 'Spinal cord injury-induced tetraplegia significantly impairs patients' ability to carry out daily activities. Customized human-machine interfaces for controlling assistive devices is vital in improving the patient's self-help ability and reducing the societal caregiving burden. In this study, we developed a body-machine interface that utilizes soft sensors and IMUs to remap residual shoulder movements of tetraplegics to a two-dimensional continuous command space. A rule-based and a user intent-inference-based data decoding method were designed by us, respectively, for mapping interface data to command spaces. By involving the prior knowledge of user's abilities into a shared autonomy framework, we have implemented a shared command mapping approach to enhance the efficiency of command generation. Finally, we validated the effectiveness of the proposed method through target reaching tasks and a virtual powered wheelchair driving task. Our proposed method has the potential to be integrated into clothing, enabling non-invasive interaction in daily life. Additionally, it can also serve as a complementary for completing intricate tasks through cooperation with brain-computer interface or joysticks. '
date: 2023-07-13
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10093012'
citation: 'R. Liu et al., “Adaptive Symmetry Reference Trajectory Generation in Shared Autonomy for Active Knee Orthosis,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 3118–3125, Jun. 2023, doi: 10.1109/LRA.2023.3264767.'
---

Spinal cord injury-induced tetraplegia significantly impairs patients' ability to carry out daily activities. Customized human-machine interfaces for controlling assistive devices is vital in improving the patient's self-help ability and reducing the societal caregiving burden. In this study, we developed a body-machine interface that utilizes soft sensors and IMUs to remap residual shoulder movements of tetraplegics to a two-dimensional continuous command space. A rule-based and a user intent-inference-based data decoding method were designed by us, respectively, for mapping interface data to command spaces. By involving the prior knowledge of user's abilities into a shared autonomy framework, we have implemented a shared command mapping approach to enhance the efficiency of command generation. Finally, we validated the effectiveness of the proposed method through target reaching tasks and a virtual powered wheelchair driving task. Our proposed method has the potential to be integrated into clothing, enabling non-invasive interaction in daily life. Additionally, it can also serve as a complementary for completing intricate tasks through cooperation with brain-computer interface or joysticks.  unstructured environment and provide a kinematic reference for torque-assistance AKO.

[Download paper here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10093012)

Recommended citation: R. Liu et al., “Adaptive Symmetry Reference Trajectory Generation in Shared Autonomy for Active Knee Orthosis,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 3118–3125, Jun. 2023, doi: 10.1109/LRA.2023.3264767.


